The Project Gutenberg EBook of First Chinese Traveler to the United States, by 
Shao Xiang Lin

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: First Chinese Traveler to the United States
       Lin King Chew, Reminiscences of Western Travels & Relevant
       American Press Reports, 1847-1850

Author: Shao Xiang Lin

Release Date: March 26, 2017 [EBook #54433]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FIRST CHINESE TRAVELER TO U.S. ***




Produced by Ting Man Tsao






    Transcriber’s Note

There are only two extant copies of /Reminiscences of Western Travels/
(Xi hai ji you cao 西海紀遊草), written by the first Chinese traveler to
the United States in 1849. One is in private hands in China; the other
is housed in the New York Public Library. There are significant
differences between the two. The former was the source of the 1985
revised edition***, published in China, but this eBook is based on the
latter. For further details, please see "Transcriber's
Note, Part 2" and "A note about the author’s names and the book
title's translation" at the end of this document. See also
my online project at http://scalar.usc.edu/works/firstchinesetraveler/.

There are uncommon characters in the Chinese transcription. If they do
not appear on your screen, you will need to download and install a
suitable font. Alternatively, you may refer to the photos of the
original book's pages. Typographical errors in the American newspaper
and periodical reports were not corrected.


    按語

第一位遠赴美國遊歷的華人，於1849年著述的“西海紀遊草” [Reminiscences of
Western Travels]， 現今碩果僅存兩個珍本。其中一本，為中國私人收藏；另一
本，是紐約公共圖書館的藏書。兩書之間，有顯著 差別。中國岳麓書社於1985年
出版的校訂本***，是跟據前者編撰，而我的電子書內容則以 後者為藍本
編寫。詳情請參閱本文結尾的英文按語， 及關於作者名
字和書名翻譯的註釋， 亦請瀏覽我的綱頁。

在中文的謄本中，有些罕見的漢字，如果沒有出現在屏幕上，您需要下載安裝合適
的字 體；另一個可行方法是參考原書每頁的照片。至於在美國報刊報道中出現的
排印錯誤，均會原文收錄，不作 更正。

TMT


------------------------------------------------------------------------

***Lin Zhen 林鍼. "Xi hai ji you cao 西海纪游草 ." *...*



------------------------------------------------------------------------


  First Chinese Traveler to the United States:


    Lin King Chew, /Reminiscences of Western Travels/
    & Relevant American Press Reports, 1847-1850


    第一位赴美遊歷的中國人:


    林綤㿝《西海紀遊草》 及美國報刊相關報道, 1847-1850


------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Table of Contents  目錄


  林綤㿝《西海紀遊草》


      封面 Front Cover


      扉頁 [1849] Title Page


       西海紀遊序  Forewords


      庚戌[1850]王道徵"序"


      歐夢蕉"序"


       西海紀遊自序  Preface


       西海紀遊詩  Poem [道光二十九年(1849)初稿]


       救回被誘潮人記  Rescuing the Chaozhou People


      〔附〕記先祖妣節孝事略  Ancestral Account


        跋  Postscripts


      己酉[1849]周見三"跋"


      己酉[1849]歗雲梅"跋"

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    American Press Reports   美國報刊報道


       "A Great Curiosity Coming to this Port--A Yankee Speculation,"
      New York Daily Tribune, February 6, 1847


       "The Chinese Junk Keying," New York Daily Tribune, July 14, 1847


       "The Chinese Junk," New York Herald, July 21, 1847


       "The Chinese Junk," Albany Evening Journal, August 11, 1847


       "The Chinese Junk," New York Daily Tribune, August 13, 1847


       "A Chinese Junketing," New York Commercial Advertiser, August 31,
      1847


       "Law Courts," New York Daily Tribune, September 8, 1847


       "Chinese Junk," New York Daily Tribune, September 28, 1847


       "The Chinese and the Junk," New York Daily Tribune, October 4,
      1847


       "Arrest of a Chinaman," Morning Courier and New York Inquirer,
      October 7, 1847


       "Seamen's Chaplain for China," New York Evangelist, October 7,
      1847


       "Arrest of a Celestial," Brooklyn Evening Star, October 8, 1847


       "Ling Keng Chow," New York Daily Tribune, October 19, 1847


       "Sailing of the Chinese Sailors, Belonging to the Cochin China
      Junk," Dwight’s American Magazine ..., November 13, 1847

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Transcriber's Note, Part 2


      A note about the author’s names and the book title's translation

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  *卥海紀遊艸*


        楊廷球題


      Reminiscences of Western Travels
      By
      Lin Kung King
      of Amoy
      China
      Who visited the United States
      in 1847—[1]849 and
      was afterwards employed
      as Linguist to the
      U.S. Consulate at Amoy

BookCover

[封面 Front Cover]


      衟灮己酉蒲月


  卥海紀㳺艸


      鳴軒楊廷球題

RectoCover

[扉頁 Title Page]

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    西海紀遊序

序
吾鄉林君景周，翩翩佳公子也，僑寓鷺門。丁未二月，由粵東起程往花旂，至六月
達其國。越已酉二月，仍返泉州足跡所經，一一紀述，幷託之長句，名曰 《西海紀
遊艸》。以寫其天時人事之變遷，風俗山川之離合，令閱者惝恍迷離，恍如置身絕
域。壯哉斯遊乎！

顧余聞景周性惇篤而家甚貧，白髮在堂，無以爲養。其乘風破浪，孤劍長征，將以
博菽水資而爲二老歡也。其遊不久卽歸，非得已者。不知者乃以此相 夸詫，過矣！

集中所記尊大母節孝事略，語極真摯。而營捄潮州二十六人，身蹈不測，幸得閨秀
雷卽聲以三百金力爲排解，其事尤可傳。夫以景周負權奇俶儻之姿， 何施不可？
而必爲海外之行，以蓄其甘旨。義憤所發，至於從井救人。向非俠女子引手一援，
其欲生入玉門關也，難矣！乃景周至有所不顧，一意孤行，自求其是。卒之吉人天
相，履險如夷，抽身從九萬里歸，家慶團圓，重承色笑。雖景周之智略足以馭之，
亦景周之孝思有以致之乎？

余於景周素未謀面，近其師林伊洛先生以所著大集見示，並屬題識。時余方株守窮
廬，毫無善狀足以仰慰先靈。受而卒業，深羨其逮事二親，能得天倫 之至樂也！
於是乎書。

庚戌仲春，三山王道徵譔


PageImage

[西海紀遊序 一 Foreword 1]


PageImage

[西海紀遊序 二 Foreword 2]


庚戌歲，伊洛林先生以其門弟子林君景周《西海紀遊艸》見示。其中以駢體摹寫九萬
里人情土俗、物產天時，無不詳 記，使人披閱之下，宛然在目。至於義救潮人，
禮維閨秀，末復述祖妣苦節，表揚當世，此皆至性至情，出於自然，竟成希有僅
事。惜予頻年落魄，良晤 無緣， 竊幸誦君之詩，而喜為天下道也。謹書數語，以
誌鄙懷云爾。

烏麓歐夢蕉謹識

PageImage

[西海紀遊 一 Travelogue 1]

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    西海紀遊自序

歲維丁未，月屆仲春爰借東風，遠遊西極。蕭蕭長夜，碧海青天；黯黯離愁，臨形
吊影。衣冠優孟，数十年之去日匆匆；傀儡登場，九萬里之奔波碌碌。感 時撫
景，慘談吟詩；往事聊陳，焉能情巳。于是，譜海市蜃樓，表温柔之佳話；借鏡花
水月，發壯麗之大觀。 曘蓼集茶，苦中之苦；披星帶月，天外重 天。父母倚閭而
望，星霜卽父母之星霜；家人籌数愆期，冷煖殆家人之冷暖。腹如懸磬，午夜不計
饔飧；身似簸箕，風雨飄流蕩跡。千金一飯，王孫容易 豪雄；百結愁腸，絕域難
堪腥臭。鐙如求璧，水甚淘金。年來之心跡迷茫，有誰知巳；此日之關山迢遞，卽
景生愁。鬼氣蛙聲，頻增旅恨；蓬頭垢首，強 啜糟醨。水手跳梁，稱呼夥計 (番
人呼粵人爲夥計) 梢工督令，宛爾將軍 (夷俗出海多權)。伍子吹簫，英雄氣短；
周郎顧曲，兒女情長。梦裏還 家，歡然故里；醒仍作客，觸目紅毛 (夷人多紅毛
藍目)。

四旬航海，驚殊寒暑三更 (記得四十日之洋，而三遷寒暑，因南北廛度之分故
也)；兩閱人生，虛度韶光什二。迴憶牛衣對泣，遊人知有室之乖 (予 初婚未久，
卽辭家外出)；舉頭斗柄頻更，蕩子抱無家之痛。東西夷夏，球地相懸；南北輿
圖，身家背面 (大地旋轉不息，中國之晝卽西洋之夜)。痛 思及此，出涕潸然；逝
者如斯，情深今古矣！

時而寂寞光陰，空仍是色；繼暫逍遥雲漢，醉不關癡。覩環海之連天，天仍連海；
念雙親之思子，子更思親。桴海遠遊，謾笑囊無長物；圖書左右，竟㤀 地不容
錐。水綠山青，遽喜捨舟登彼岸；花明柳暗，來隨飛絮去沿萍。屈指梅萼春芳，不
覺蓮香夏至 (予自二月由廣東起程，至六月方達其國)。

百丈之楼䑓重叠，鐵石參差 (以石為瓦，各家兼竪鐵支，自地至屋頂，以防電患)
萬家之亭榭嵯峨，桅檣錯雜 (學校行店以及舟車，浩瀚而齊整)。 艫舳出洋入口，
引水掀輪 (貨物出口無餉，而入稅甚重。以火烟舟引水，時行百里)；潛踪背負挑
肩，駱䭾馬儎 (無肩挑背負之役)。渾渾則老少安 懷，嬉嬉而男女混雜 (男女出
入，携手同行)。田園為重，農夫樂歲興歌；山海之珍，商賈應墟載市 (每七日為
安息期，則官民罷業)。博古院明鐙 幻影，彩煥雲霄 (有一院集天下珍奇，任人遊
玩，楼上懸鐙，運用機括，變幻可觀)；巧驛傳密事急郵，支聯脉絡。暗用廿六文
字，隔省俄通 (每百 步竪兩木，木上橫架鐵線，以胆礬、磁石、水銀等物，兼用
活軌，將廿六字母為暗號，首尾各有人以任其職。如首一動，尾卽知之，不論政
務，頃刻可通 萬里。予知其法之詳)；沿開百里河源，四民資益 (地名紐約克，為
花旂之大馬頭，番人畢集。初患無水，故沿開至百里外，用大鐵管為水筒，藏于地
中，以承河淄。兼築石室以蓄水，高與楼齊，且積水可供四億人民四月之需。各家
楼䑓暗藏銅管于壁上，以承放清濁之水，極工盡巧。而平地噴水高出数 丈，如天
花亂墜)。酋長與諸夷並集，貴賤無分；白番與黑鬼私通，生成黄種 (土番面赤身
昂，性直而愚。三百年前，英人深入其地，久而家焉。 屡奪亞非利加黑鬼，賣其
地為奴。而禁白黑相配。間有私通者，遂生黃面虬毛之類)。天堂地獄，奉教競
競；贖罪捐軀，超生一一 (西洋諸國多奉耶 穌、天主二教)。

艤海艦舸千里，子母炮連城 (卽天炮也)；坤靈日月旋乾，渾天儀秉鑑 (其人善測
天地度數，雖航海周年不覩山嵐，亦無毫釐之差。如西儒利瑪竇之 天地形說，亦
不及其詳)。郡邑有司，置刑不用 (其法准原、被告各攜狀師，並廿四耆老當堂証
駁，負者金作贖刑，檻作罪刑)；城鄉要害，寓兵于農。 刻字為碑，瞽盲摩讀 (盲
瞽院華麗非常，刻板為書，使盲人摸讀)；捐金置舍，孤寡栽培 (設院以濟孤寡鰥
獨)。車舂水織，功稱鬼斧叢奇；良治書 城，技奪天工靈活 (集板印書，以及舟、
車、舂、織、鎚、鑄等工，均用火煙輪，運以機器，神速而不費力。余獨有志于舟
車之學，可以濟公利私。惟 獨力不支，苟吾人有志共成，不期年可以奏效也)。或
風或雨，暴狂示兆于懸鍼；乍暑乍寒，冷暖旋龜于畫指 (以披璃管裝水銀，為風雨
暑寒針)。 山川人物，鏡中指曰㽞形 (有神鏡，煉藥能借日光以照花鳥人物，頃刻
㽞模，余詳其法)；術数經綸，學校男師女傅 (有閨秀雷卽聲，其同學女友， 見余
恭敬無嫌疑，現為女傅。其書院中有子女自六、七歲至十六、七歲者四百餘人，男
女師長四人，均任其職。每日課定巳、午、未，每禮拜期放學二日， 率此成例)。

一團和氣，境無流丐僧尼；四毒沖天，人有奸淫邪盜 (斯亦不免)。應心得手，創
一技便可成名 (其俗不尚虛文，凢人能首創一藝，足以利世，特加 槳賞)；遠國他
邦，道不同目為愚蠢 (目崇信鬼神、奉祀土木偶者為賤鄙罪人)。四海工商畢集，
阜尓經營；卅省民庶叢生，年增倍蓗。醫精剖割，瞞 人背地開棺 (每省有一醫
館，傳方濟世。凡貧民入其中就醫，雖兔謝金，或病致死，卽剖屍驗病，有不從
者，卽開棺偷驗)；事播新文，衾影難藏聲跡 (大政細務，以及四海新文，日印於
紙，傳揚四方，故官民無私受授之弊)。南圃南農遍地，棉麥秋收；北工北賈居
奇，酒肉兄弟。黑鬼生充下陳，畢 世相承 (英人以黑鬼賣於其地，遂世為賤役。
主人貧，輙轉賣之)；拈䦰眾選賢良，多簽獲荐 (凡大小官吏，命士民保舉，多人
荐拔者得售)。暴強 所擾，八載劳師 (其地原屬英吉利管轄，因征稅繁擾，故華盛
頓出而拒之，遂自爲國，爭霸西洋)；統領為尊，四年更代 (眾見華盛頓有功于
國，遂 立彼為統領，四年復㽞一任，今率成例)。四時土產，物等價昂；半據荒
洲，地寬人少 (其地雖居天下四分之一，然而人民不及中國二省之多。工人少 而
土物貴，理所必然)。

去日之觀天坐井，語属齊東；年來只測海窺蠡，氣吞泰岱。眼界森臨萬象，彩筆難
描；耳開奇怪多端，事珠誰記？潺潺流水，桃源漁子重來；燭燭其華，周 召家人
遺愛 (男女自婚配，宜其有室家之樂矣)。瓜田納履，世復何疑；李下整冠，人無
旁論 (歸舟之出海，主事者每抱客婦在懷，醜態難狀，恬不 為怪)。春風入座，一
言聯靜好之機；宋玉東牆，百禮防範圍之制 (予恒與夷女並肩把臂于月下花前，未
嘗及亂)。嬌藏錦綉，遍地𣰽毺；貌襯玻璃 ，映窓梅雪。桃花上馬，蠻姨領露蝤
蠐；油壁香車，遊女鞭含夕照。依依楊柳，到處垂青；蕩蕩桃花，西秦薄命 (予有
句云: "好花一入行人子，不 揷金樽痛客心")。秋月春芳，難窮幽韻；亀年延壽，
莫繪傾城。詩酒琴棋，堂飛舊燕；𦂶羅書𦘚，醉冩春風 (書𦘚琴棋，玉人各精其
妙)。敢 嘖卿卿，言真咄咄。蠻腰舞掌，輕鴻遠渡重淵 (女友隨凌氏，玉腰纖小，
窈窕可人，恐小蠻見者，應羞婢對夫人)；鶯囀歌檀，玉佩聲來月下 (夷女 雖工諸
藝，予獨取其風琴，手彈足按，音韻鏗鏘，神致飄然)。

時臨乞巧，巧遇潮人；景為玉成，成諸蠻女 (時有潮州澄海人二十六輩，被英商誘
去，舟飄其地，值余哀訴舟中鞭朴以及離別之苦。余爲營救，竟得附 舟歸里。余
之獲交女友雷卽聲，亦根于此，遂主于其家者兩月。噫！予之救火及身，更感其情
多方垂顧。不意平生知巳，竟出于海外之女卽。而余結草啣 環，又在何日？興懷
及此，未嘗不潸然欲涕也。被誘之事，餘詳卷後)。廿六人之隨風飄蕩，苦海無
涯，兩百日之忍氣吞聲，捐生一旦。眾為救歸鼓禍， 遭驅象而送向蛇吞；吾悲同
調相憐，計釣鯉而敺由獺祭。相逢萍水，難辭萍寄他方；無縫天衣，幸獲天緣湊
巧。夷宮會審，臨提難𦘚葫蘆；鮑管分金， 卽日乘機航葦 (于八月廿六日，眾得
返棹)。

天從人願，何妨平地興波；友玉他山，毛秃鵲橋填壑。主人高義，保非罪之拘囚
(因救潮人而鼓禍，蒙女友之父以三百金保余出禁)；彼美多情，喜
驚 鱗之脫網。百八度之星娥繫足，指約盟心 (自厦到其處，恰一百八十度，余感
其情，贈以金指約一枚)；兩閱月之紅拂垂青，玉容表誓 (答以小照)。 淒淒江
草，梦印楊州；浙浙秋天，爐灰畫字 (恒與圍爐夜話)。虽使君有婦，抱痛人天；
慣小姑無郎，心堅金石 (嘗語余以不嫁)。底事華番異 致，黎倩牽心；天然胡婦多
情，子卿誰是？夜繞池塘梦草，孤燈淚漬衾裯；時維覩𦘚呼真，一紙心懸枕蓆。

刻刻關心雙鯉，雲山萬叠無踪；年年作客秦川，面目故吾黧瘦。相思紅豆，𣗳頭空
盻盡寒鴉；溝水長流，葉上只一通錦字 (余在南方九月，只得玉人 一書而巳)。陰
晴渺渺，一殘編昏曉流年，雨雪霏霏，九閱月婆娑牙軸。蠹魚飽蛀，咀嚼華英 (每
譯夷書以解悶) ；禿管餘堆，抹塗鴉字。

時卽凄風苦雨，冐凍尋芳;居恒矮屋炎天，汗蒸流水。深感蘭香割股，饋奉高堂；
减壽祈天，孝慈守節 (在彼追念先祖妣節孝，因作一記，詳卷後)。 音容如在，痛
繞膝之無從；桑梓雖遥，幸歸㠶之迅發。山海竒觀，書眞難罄；椿萱並茂，貧亦何
憂。生逢   盛世，豈甘異域之久居；略敘遊蹤，思補職方之 外紀。情有未盡，複
綴以詩。

PageImage

[西海紀遊自序 一 Preface 1]

PageImage

[西海紀遊自序 二 Preface 2]

PageImage

[西海紀遊自序 三 Preface 3]

PageImage

[西海紀遊自序 四 Preface 4]

PageImage

[西海紀遊自序 五 Preface 5]

PageImage

[西海紀遊自序 六 Preface 6]

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    西海紀遊詩

足跡半天下，聞觀景頗奇；因貧思遠客，覓侶往花旗。初發閩南掉，長教徼外馳，
星霜帆作帳，凍餒餅充饑。
游子思親際，原親憶子時；思親虞老邁，憶 子患凄其；妻對牛衣泣，夫從斗柄
移。輿圖看背向，道路悵多歧；
鱗甲爭飛舞，風濤作鼓吹；蜃䑓藏霧社，蛟壑起雲螭；謾嘖船牢久，須憐絕域羇；
岸由 山数轉，春出夏來茲。
宮闕嵯峨現，桅檣錯雜隨；激波掀火舶，載貨運牲騎；巧驛傳千里，公私刻共知；
泉橋承遠溜，利用濟居夷；
戰艦連城炮，渾天測 海蠡；女男分貴賤，白黑辨尊卑；俗奉耶穌教，人遵禮拜
規；聯邦情旣洽，統領法猶垂；
國以勤農富，官從薦舉宜；窮招孤寡院，瞽讀揣摩碑；斷獄除刑 具，屯軍肅令
儀，暑寒針示兆，機織火先施；
土廣民仍少，售昂物只斯；南方寬沃壤，北省善謀貲；少蓄遨游志，今開夙昔疑。
玉堂鋪錦繡，瓊宇襯玻瓈；
秋月彈湘怨，蒼松繪雪姿；才追謝道蘊，慧媲蔡文姬；走筆籠鵞帖，迎𨦟探虎棋；
楼頭鐙變幻，鏡裏影迷離；
算貫毫釐末，談㤀辯駁疲；嫦娥辭碧落，大 士渡銀湄。為釋潮澄禍，俄興楚卞
悲；雷陳交繾綣，縞𥿉結相思；
被揑曾穿牖，爰提至有司；亥初遭禁繫，午末脫拘縻；紅袖援雙手，良朋助一𡕸。
黎明 傷祖餞，甛黑繞塘池；
覩畵卿頻喚，囘書望素絲；簟衾餘淚暈，面目瘦燋黧；纂譯聊温習，耕鋤藉硯菑。
殘篇魚蠹蝕，牙軸禿囊錐。
九月棲鴻鷁，週年傍 栢籬，龍門登印度，猪溷鎖麟兒；磨煉曾如許，頭臚歎殆
而。歸程歡迅速，家慶樂酣嬉；
萍梗何爲者，蒭蕘或采之；不才無所用，卽事偶成詩。

道光二十九年又四月，閩縣天蕩子林綤㿝景周初稿

PageImage

[西海紀遊詩 一 Poem 1]

PageImage

[西海紀遊詩 二 Poem 2]

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    救回被誘潮人記

余未離家三月之前，巳聞英商在廣省買一漢船，並招潮州人，意欲歸國，藉竒以獲
利。 迨丁未六月，余甫達花旂，卽見其船泊於港口
候騐。至数日，余卽與同行者下船探眾，詢及始末，方知被英夷
所誘，前曾偽立合約云：欲往爪鴉貿易，以八月爲限，限𣼛聽去留。而後船經其地
而不入，眾方知苦。 然而悔巳晚矣。訢及長洋，数受鞭笞之慘，求死不能，
今而後，苟舟他往，眾等雖死此地亦不與俱矣。因船值逆風，不
得往英，而寄泊於此，幸得遇君， 願垂救之。

同行云，"此處有魯姓者，爲花旂法家第一，苟得其片言隻字，何患不完璧歸趙？"
余是以不辭勞苦，代眾勤訪兩月，因其避暑相左，恐舟他往，未免患 生魚肉。於
是八月中旬，眾卽向英人求歸，而英人見眾心力齊一，亦恐有變，況土人聞漢船
至，爭欲觀之。人與英夷銀錢半枚，始得上船，遍覽日得銀錢 数千，豈肯放歸，
因架誣眾欲謀亂，遂押七人於牢中。

其日，𣼛城之人，紛紛傳揚，是夜潮人之首蟻相者來余寓中，泣訢益慘切，余以未
遇魯姓末如之何。比曉，遂到檻中相探，見有額破足跛、血染征衣 者，不堪卒
視。幸而醫人周顧，余頗心安，姑作善言寬慰之。

至第四日夷官會審，而魯姓適歸，於是並集䑓前，首座一官卽按詞訊問，爾等何故
謀殺船主，從實招來，法不容詐。時余坐於旁列，遂向前代譯始末情 由，並於十
九人中，擇一爲証，卽將文憑當堂譯明，而魯姓亦坐於堂右，指駁英夷，井井有
條。只見英夷戰兢汗下，莫措一詞，而夷官究知其𡚁，遂當堂釋 放七人，觀者欣
聲雷動。

明日，余與魯姓之名，傳聞遠邇，遂命眾等將舟中行李移入雷卽聲家中，其人爲各
國水手之會主，頗有血性，待眾如 同手足，不問月費。而余之獲識其女，亦由此也。

旣而托魯性代眾伸冤，轉告英夷，呈入船封察院，不日判云：拐帶漢人船無執照，
而眾有文憑，其偽可知，況鞭撻平民，罪不容逭，姑念眾等貧 無依倚，罰英人以
金作贖刑，卽日配船送眾歸國，使遊子無凍餒之悲，室家無懸望之苦，雖一切工
資，亦不許白吞，毋違，特示。 至是一一如判，眾得於 八月二十六
日附舶返掉。

噫，英人以余破其奸，而不余願，知余初學神鏡法，卽囑其友照鏡師
誣余，以所買之物爲盜，私與協文醫生串通，值余外出私開箱篋，迫余以所買之物
還之，不然卽欲送官。余先有成見，豈肯墜其鬼術，正欲其到官剖雪，且潮州人等
見余救火焚身，求余一並同歸，余以事未明白不從。余雖遭誣陷，中懷 全無芥
蒂，是日送眾百里之外，眾雖含辛泣別，余獨以救人爲快事焉。
至二十九夜，夷官 遣役來拘，明早余同役早飯於雷家，雷卽
聲之女懇其父兄代余鼎力，至午，官亦知其詳，准其父以三百金保余在外候訊，而
後初同行者自西省而歸， 並魯姓至 官廳代余剖譯曲直，其事始明。
余之得於十月遊覽南方者，多蒙諸友人愛屋及烏之力也。

潮州被誘之人，於是冬安抵廣省，勒碑於潮。余至巳酉二月方得旋廈，爰記此事，
爲後人之勸云爾。

PageImage

[救回被誘潮人記 一 Rescue Story 1]

PageImage

[救回被誘潮人記 二 Rescue Story 2]

PageImage

[救回被誘潮人記 三 Rescue Story 3]

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    〔附〕記先祖妣節孝事略

先祖妣，侯宮 (人氏，議敘貴州貴陽府定番州知州用周公諱時權之女，小字嬉官。
幼讀書，識) 大體。年十五，母病延醫無效，先祖妣日夜悲痛，焚香告天， 割股
和藥以進，願减巳壽延親年，母病獲痊。時曾祖考 (歲進士便選州諱瓊苑公聞其賢
孝，遂聘為次子婦。) 入門数年，克臻婦道。生三子：長端言公，次 慎言公，季
卽吾父也。不幸先祖考中年去世，遺下諸孤皆幼弱，所有業產盡被族人侵佔。先祖
妣事女紅，日不再食。有窺其貧，欲勸之改節者，見其誓志 不移，卒敬畏之。然
而貧甚，迨先伯父稍長，寄食厦門，遂家焉。綤㿝少時頗不好學，先祖妣恒以 "蕩
子囘頭金不換" 之語諄諄訓誡。嗚呼！今而後，慈訓 不可得聞巳，是可痛也！先
祖妣旣逝，㿝卽蕩跡天涯，因自署為天蕩子，以志不肖，不敢㤀先祖妣之德意云
耳。先祖妣生于乾隆庚辰年，終于道光乙巳年， 享壽八十有六，殯厦門之城南。
子孫貧賤，不能仰邀      旌表。雖卽一抔之土，尚難返葬故鄕。抱痛終天，曷其
有極！抑天之所以成就節孝者，如此而巳耶？ 時在海外，追思往昔，謹和淚濡
毫，略陳梗概。

不肖孫林綤㿝百拜謹記

PageImage

[先祖妣節孝事略 一 Ancestral Account 1]

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    跋

男子志在四方，足跡不出里巷者，其人必無以廣見聞而增膽識。   景周表弟居於
泉之廈島，癸卯歲負笈抵省，不以𪜬學淺，執弟子禮甚恭，是不遠數百里而 遊
也。其爲人倜儻不羣，胸次爽朗，𪜬深喜之。歸家後二年，受外國花旗聘，舌耕海
外，是不遠數萬里而逰也。𪜬聞之益喜，知此行乘風破浪，必有以長 其學問，擴
其胸懷矣。春間浮海，旋卽以所著《西海紀逰草》郵寄於𪜬。披閱之下，其中徃來之
跋涉，遭際之竒異，以及人情土俗、物產天時，無不一一 詳記，使人了然於目，
了然於心。窺見一斑，其文思不大有進哉！至於不避艱險，營救潮人，實出於血
性，尤爲不負斯行矣。   表弟孝於親，奔走海外，常 以不能承歡𦡀下爲悲，且述
其祖妣生平苦節，以誌不㤀，其天性之肫摯，不可想見哉？

巳酉十月望後，愚表兄周見三謹跋

PageImage

[西海紀遊跋 Postscript]


    跋

景周勇於遊，嘗附賈舶遠涉九萬里，至北亞墨利加之花旂國。今春歸來，出所著自
序一篇，風土夷情，探訪繙譯，旣詳且確復爲韻語五百言，託寄深矣。 時有潮州
民船被夷商誘去，殘害死者甚夥。適其船遭風失道至花旂，景周乃爲營救二十六
人，得脫斯難，聞者義之。筆墨之妙，猶餘事也。

巳酉清和歗雲梅識于鹭江寄舫

PageImage

[西海紀遊跋 一 Postscript 1]

PageImage

[書背 Book Back]

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Images of the Original Publication in New York Public Library
      藏於紐約公共圖書館的珍本照片

PageImage

[Left: the spine of the volume in which the book is bound with other
books and pamphlets.  Right: the volume's inside.]

PageImage

[Left: the volume's table of contents.  Right: the book's original
card-catalog record in New York Public Library.]

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    A Great Curiosity Coming to this Port--A Yankee Speculation


      New York Daily Tribune


        February 6, 1847, p.1

It appears that a new visitor may shortly be expected in these parts:

/Novel Speculation/.--An enterprising Yankee at Canton has recently
built a Chinese Junk of 300 tons fitted and rigged entirely after the
Chinese mode, which he intends taking to New York, loading her with
every species of China knicknacs, curiosities, etc. to be sold on board
after arrival off that city. He takes also a Chinese crew, a theatrical
and juggling company, males and females, and everything curious,
illustrative of the manners and customs of the Celestials.

The junk will have canvas sails and a Christian rudder to make her
suitable for the long voyage, but upon arrival at the Narrows, every
thing foreign will be replaced by Chinese articles, mat sails, clumsy
rudder and all, and the junk anchor off the city in her entire oriental
costume and build, where she will remain as a show shop, sale room and
mountebank exhibition. It is expected she will make the passage in five
months.

The cost of the whole affair will be about $30,000, and the “cute”
proprietor will undoubtedly realize a large fortune. After having
exhausted the United States, he has been offered $30,000 to deliver his
junk in England. The Manhattanese will stare as broadly at the strange
sight of a cruiser from the flowery land sailing up their noble river,
as did the aborigines when old Hendrick Hudson astonished their
unsophisticated senses by a display of his Dutch canvas in their bay.
The junks are said to be good sea boats, and nothing worse than delay is
feared in the voyage. We only wonder some one never thought of it before.


    The Chinese Junk Keying


      New York Daily Tribune


        July 14, 1847, p.2

THE CHINESE JUNK KEYING.—The Captain and consignees of the Chinese Junk
have made arrangements to exhibit this singular specimen of Chinese
naval architecture to the citizens of New York. She will be up this
morning at 11 o’clock at Castle Garden, where she will be moored and
ready to receive visitors tomorrow, from 6 o’clock, A.M. until 5 ½
o’clock, P.M.—In coming up the Bay she will be decorated with flags
peculiar to her country, and salute the vessels in our harbor.
Particulars hereafter. Get out your half dollars, and prepare to
/Chin-Chin/ Capt. Kellett and have a confab with HESING.


    The Chinese Junk


      New York Herald


        July 21, 1847, p.2

THE CHINESE JUNK--“Have you seen the Chinese Junk?” is the question
addressed to ten thousand people every day, by such of our citizens as
are fortunate enough to have seen this extraordinary vessel, and the
innumerable curiosities of every kind that are to be seen on board of
her   She is visited daily by thousands of our people, and there appears
to be no end to the excitement she has made in our community. She is,
indeed, a novelty, and one hour’s stay on board of her will give a
better insight into Chinese manners and customs, than can be learned in
a library of books.


    The Chinese Junk


      Albany Evening Journal


        August 11, 1847, p.2

This strange craft continues to attract numerous Visitors. Though the
project originated with a Yankee, it was carried out by an Englishman,
who “bought in” for $10,000 premium, after the Junk was ready for Sea.
The Chinese Sailors who are on board complain of ill-usage. They belong
to a Province of China remote from Canton, and were shipped for
a coasting Voyage. After being some weeks at Sea, suspecting foul play,
they refused to work, and the Junk drifted for two days. But the
Proprietor and a few English Sailors arming themselves and taking
advantage of a favorable moment, forced the Chinese to work.
Subsequently they determined to starve themselves to death, and were
nearly three days without food.

After the Junk had been a week or ten days in New York, an American
Gentleman who had resided five years in the place from which these men
came, went on board, and finding that he spoke their language (which
differs from that spoken at Canton) they made their complaint to him.
This gentleman communicated the facts to some Merchants, who called upon
the Junk Proprietor and asked him to pay the Chinese Sailors regular
wages and provide for their return in an American ship.—Their
proposition was at first rejected and resented, but on finding that his
Junk would be libelled and his speculation blown up, the Gentleman
complied, and arrangements are now making for the return of the Men who
were inveigled from their homes.


    The Chinese Junk


      New York Daily Tribune


        August 13, 1847, p.2

THE CHINESE JUNK.--The /Albany Evening Journal/ publishes as its leader
of Wednesday an interesting story about the junk. It seems that somebody
who can talk about the lingo of the Chinamen has been on board and has
learned from them that they have been badly used  In the first place
they say that they were inveigled on board under pretence of a coasting
voyage and that after being some weeks at sea, suspecting foul play,
they refused to work and the junk drifted for two days. But the
proprietor and a few English sailors arming themselves and taking
advantage of a favorable moment, forced the Chinese to work.
Subsequently they determined to starve themselves to death, and were
nearly three days without food. The gentleman in question, according to
the /Journal/, interested some merchants in the matter who compelled the
proprietor to pay the Chinamen full wages and to make arrangements for
sending the men home, although he resisted the proposition when first
made to him.

We are not informed as to the truth of this story, but it seems to us
bear marks of a lively imagination. If it originated with the Chinamen
it is enough to say that they are unequaled liars. Moreover we
understood from Captain Kellett, some time before this gentleman is
alleged to have visited the junk, that the Chinamen were receiving
regular wages as sailors and that his intention was to send them out by
some ship going from New York to China. The only complaint we then heard
on board was from Mr. HESING who, in the confidence of friendly
conversation lamented the violence he had been compelled to do his
domestic affections by leaving his three wives. He did not, however,
charge this upon Capt. Kellett, but upon the unfortunate paucity of
accommodations in the junk for so extensive a family.


    A Chinese Junketing


      New York Commercial Advertiser


        August 31, 1847, p.2

A CHINESE JUNKETING.--A rather grave disagreemen and some disturbance
took place yesterday, on board the Chinese junk, between Capt. Kellett
and his mate and a portion of the Chinese crew, some of whom, the
captain alleges, have been made discontented by parties who wish to
seduce them from his service. The pecuniary offers held out to them have
unsettled them, but they are too cunning and suspicious to release the
captain from his responsibility in reference to them, and the
consequence has been a disposition to mutiny and riot. They had smoked
opium so freely, during their meditations upon the matter, that the
riotous spirit yesterday obtained the ascendancy, and its first
indication was a demand for the wages, which the captain tendered to the
discontented, and offered them a bonus of twenty dollars if they would
return their original agreements or give him a release in full from all
claims. This they refused to do; and under the excitement of the opium
made a severe attack upon the captain and mate. They were, however,
eventually subdued, and some of the ring-leaders, it is said, were taken
to the police office. We saw two of them evince a similar spirit some
time ago.

While we are writing this, some half dozen of them have passed our
office, on their way from the station house, probably, for examination
on the charge. The poor fellows seem disconsolate enough, and one of
them we saw wiping tears from his eyes. Their names are Assoy, Ayong,
Lonee, Attee, Attoo, Tinding and Corotin; and they were this morning
committed for violently assaulting Edward Rinett, second captain to the
junk.


    Law Courts


      New York Daily Tribune


        September 8, 1847, p.2

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT--[…]

/The Chinese Junk/.—Mr. Lord, on behalf of Hia Siang, Ung
Fl, Lim Chingal, Khosing Thiam, and 22 others, (26 in all,) seamen of
the Chinese Junk, the Keying, filed a libel against the vessel, claiming
wages from September last, when they started from Whampoa, near
Canton—also for maintenance here during proceedings, and for sufficient
to enable them to procure a passage back to Whampoa (the latter
requiring between $100 and $200 each.) The claim that such was the
agreement for the voyage, which they understood was to be for Batavia or
Singapore, and not to occupy over eight months. Mr. Burr, on behalf of
Capt. Kellet, of the vessel, made objections, but the Court thought the
men had a right to libel the vessel, and show, if they could, that the
wages and allowances are due to them. The order was allowed.


    Chinese Junk


      New York Daily Tribune


        September 28, 1847, p 2

CHINESE JUNK.--This vessel remains in the keeping of the U.S. Marshal of
this district, in consequence of the libel placed on her by the Chinese
crew. We do not know how much longer she will remain here, but the
native crew are going home soon in a merchant vessel.


    The Chinese and the Junk


      New York Daily Tribune


        October 4, 1847, p. 1

THE CHINESE AND THE JUNK.--It seems the difficulty with Capt. Kellett
has been settled, the Captain paying $1000 for their passage home.
To-morrow morning the whole crew are expected to attend the Mariners’
Methodist Episcopal Church in Cherry st. On Monday next they are to
leave for the Celestial Empire. The Junk remains.


    Arrest of a Chinaman


      Morning Courier and New York Inquirer


        October 7, 1847, p.2

/Arrest of a Chinaman/.--Sin Ken Chem was arrested, charged with
stealing a quantity of Daguerreotype apparatusses,
belonging to Peter N. Harsley, No. 112 Broadway, valued at $35. It seems
that Sin was in the employ of Mr. Harsley, but whether to learn the art
or not does not appear. On the 1st of September, however, he left,
taking with him the articles in question, probably with the idea of
starting the business in his own country. He was held for examination.


    Seamen's Chaplain for China


      New York Evangelist


        October 7, 1847, p.158

Sailed, on the 4th inst. in the bark Candace, Captain Gardner,
the Rev. Geo. Loomis, commissioned by the American Seamen's Friend
Society to preach the gospel to seamen in the port of Canton. Being "
ready to depart on the morrow," a public meeting was held on the
previous evening in the Allen street Methodist Episcopal church in this
city. It was a meeting of uncommon interest. The Rev. Dr. Peck preached
from Matt. 9: 36, 37, 38. General theme--/the compassion of Christ; the
objects which excited it, and its practical exercise/. In conclusion, he
called attention to the multitudes employed on the sea, wandering,
scattered and shepherdless; and forcibly urged the duty enjoined in the
text.

The Instructions of the Board were given by Mr. Spaulding, one of the
Secretaries of the Society, to which the chaplain made an impressive
response. He had left the home and the friends of his youth, to minister
in the port of Canton to the destitute sailors scattered like sheep. He
had entered upon this work impressed with its importance, not only to
the seamen themselves, but to the millions of China.

Additional interest was imparted to the occasion by the presence of
twenty-six Chinese sailors. They had been brought to these shores
contrary to their expectations and wishes, having shipped on board the
"Junk" for Java, but were landed in New-­York. For the last month they
have been inmates, and under the Christian influence of the Sailor's
Home. About to depart on the morrow in the same vessel with the
chaplain, there was an appropriate­ness in their public recognition, and
their being commended to God in prayer. Lin King Chew, a converted
Chinaman, who remains in this country, gave them a parting address, in
which, as he has since explained, he exhorted them to be good, and told
them about Jesus and heaven.

On Monday, the day being delightful, they were accompanied on board the
Candace, and as far out as Sandy Hook, by the officers of the American
Seamen's Friend Society, and other friends. Some of the owners of the
bark, who have generously given the chaplain his passage, were also on
board.

Before parting, the captain, officers and crew, with the brother beloved
who has gone as a chaplain to that distant port, were commended to the
care of Him who controls the winds and the waves.

When last seen, with all sails set, they were bounding over the waves
towards China.


    Arrest of a Celestial


      Brooklyn Evening Star


        October 8, 1847, p.2

ARREST OF A CELESTIAL.--Lin King Chew was arrested, charged with
stealing a quantity of daguerreotype plates belonging to Peter N.
Horsely. We trust there must be some mistake here, when compared with
the very pleasing notice we read of the same party in Wednesday’s N.Y.
Express.


    Ling Keng Chow


      New York Daily Tribune


        October 19, 1847, p.2

LING KENG CHOW.--The Chinaman, who came over as a teacher to Rev. Dr.
Cummings, missionary, was arrested, two or three weeks since, on a
charge of stealing some Daguerreotype apparatus. It is said, however,
with how much truth we know not that the accused bartered some things of
Chinese manufacture for the articles in question, which were found in
his trunk. The alleged owner of the Daguerreotype apparatus now admits,
it is said, having received the Chinese things but contends that they
were presents. It is to be hoped that at the trial, which for some cause
was postponed on Saturday, the Court will see that the stranger in a
strange land has justice done to him, and if it should appear that he
obtained the apparatus by barter, even though he may possibly have got
the best of the bargain, that his rights will be protected and amends
made to him for the accusation and imprisonment. We put this
hypothetically, of course, being unacquainted with the whole
particulars.  [Com. Adv.


    Sailing of the Chinese Sailors, Belonging to the Cochin China Junk.


      Dwight’s American Magazine, and Family Newspaper, for the
      Diffusion of Useful Knowledge and Moral and Religious Principles


        3.46 (November 13, 1847): p.726-727

SAILING OF THE CHINESE SAILORS, BELONGING TO THE COCHIN CHINA JUNK.--The
return of the Chinese sailors to their native land, in the bark Candace,
Capt. Gardiner, on Monday, the 4th of October, having been arranged by
the owners of the Chinese junk, they all attended the Floating Church of
this city, on the preceding Sunday afternoon. It was interesting to see
them there with the large number of other sailors who were then present,
as some of them must come within the range of Bishop Boone's mission on
their return to Shang-Hai,--and the impression of the church services
could not fail of being remembered, and of producing a solemn effect on
their minds. They were accompanied by Mr. Lin-King-Chew, a devoted
Christian, as far as he understands Christianity, having
embraced our religion through the instrumentality of some faithful
missionary in his native land. His efforts in behalf of his countrymen,
were chiefly directed to their spiritual welfare. He presented each of
them a Testament in their own language, a portion of which he daily read
and explained to them, while they were boarding at the Sailor's Home.
Mr. Lin-King-Chew is a Chinese gentleman of education, and of
distinction and property in his own country, who has been in New York
about two months, learning our language, and who, since their
difficulties, has very much interested himself in their welfare. Capt.
and Mrs. Richardson, of the New York Sailor's Home in Cherry street,
where they have been residing the last three weeks, at their request
also accompanied them. From the paternal and maternal care they have
experienced from them, they have expressed themselves, through their
interpreter, in strong terms of gratitude. After divine service, Rev.
Mr. Parker, the chaplain, presented each of them, 26 in number, with the
Protestant Churchman of April, 1845, which contains two beautiful wood
cuts, originally engraved for the Ladies' Magazine, of a view of the
exterior and interior of the Ploating Church of this city, accompanied
by an extended description of the Floating Church, and the efforts
making in the Episcopal Church throughout America for the spiritual
benefit of seamen. It was an impressive reflection, said Rev. Mr.
Parker, (in a short statement he made to the congregation, after the
benediction,) of the present circumstances of the interesting strangers
who were then present, and who were to leave our shores on, the morrow,
in the ship that lay alongside of the Floating Church, where they were,
for cities under our feet on the other side of the globe, that though
they saw before them persons who excited a deep curiosity, from their
peculiar complexion, mode of dress and physiognomy, that they belonged
to a race which, in numbers, at the present time, equalled one-third of
the whole population of our earth.

On Monday, at 9 o'clock, the deck of the bark Candace was covered with
ladies and gentlemen, and clergymen of several religious denominations,
viz: Rev. Mr. Kidder, of the Methodist communion, Rev. Messrs. Spaulding
and Loomis, Secretaries, and Rev. Mr. Parker, all members of the board
of managers of the American Seamen's Friend Society, and their devoted
friend and countrymen, Lin-King-Chew, who has been untiring in his
kindness to them, in order to accompany them to Sandy Hook. Professor
Loomis, the missionary to seamen in the port of Canton, recently
appointed by that Society, was also there. A deeply affecting incident
was there witnessed. During the progress through the Narrows to sea, a
deputation from the Chinese sailors was sent by them to Capt. and Mrs.
Richardson, then on board, begging them to take their friend and
countryman, Lin King-Chew, to their house, the Sailor's Home in Cherry
street, and take care of him while he was in America, as he was in a
land of strangers, and they felt so much love towards their friend, that
they could not leave him behind, unless they were sure he would be with
those whose sympathy and kindness they had so recently experienced. It
was truly an oriental idea expressed by one. He wished to take with him,
and plant in China, the American "cry tree,"--meaning the willow, for he
could not leave them without crying, and as it grew, he would be
constantly reminded of his feelings when he left America.

The wind being light and ahead, it was necessary for the steamer Jacob
Bell to take the Candace out as far as the lightship, 10 miles beyond
Sandy Hook, and 23 miles from the city, that she might have a good
offing. On reaching this distant place from the shore, it was observed
that a little bird had left N. York with the ship, and was now perched
on the end of one of the spars aloft, as if intending to make the voyage
with her and the Chinese sailors to their homes.

Before the steamer left her, at the request of Capt. Gardiner, after the
crew had been all assembled near the captain, and the Chinese sailors
were arranged, Rev. Mr. Parker commended her crew, passengers, the
Chinese sailors, with the Rev. missionary on board, to God's protection,
in the beautiful prayer of the Liturgy for persons going to sea,
concluding with the Lord's prayer and the benediction.

While the steamboat was sheering away, and the ship, in full sail, was
hauling off, to hasten on her voyage, her bulwarks were lined by the 26
Chinese sailors, in tears at parting with their kind friends, Capt. and
Mrs. Richardson, and their beloved countryman, Lin-King-Chew, whom they
almost worshipped for his many acts of generosity, sympathy and
friendship. The scene was truly worthy of an artist's pencil. The whole
rail on the starboard side was lined with the swarthy figures of these
bare-headed Mongolians, shaking their hands in the air, and looking
towards the steamboat. The caps of the crew were flourishing aloft
behind them, as they gave their three cheers, which were answered by the
ladies waving their handkerchiefs, and the response of the gentlemen.
When these had ceased, the Chinese sailors struck up their farewell
song, which continued, in their harsh, cracked voices, till both vessels
were so far separated that the sound died on the air.

In one hour a small speck on the horizon was all that was seen of the
bark Candace and her interesting passengers. On the steamboat's return,
her services were requested, by a signal set under the jib-boom of a
ship aground, within the Hook, which for 24 hours had made ineffectual
efforts by sails, and, as soon as it could be produced, by another
steamboat, to get off. After breaking several large hawsers, and two
hours' hard straining with steam, the Jacob Bell succeeded in hauling
her off, and the passengers who accompanied the Candace reached the city
at 6 o'clock in the evening.--/Express/.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Transcriber's Note, Part 2

Before the publication of this eBook, anyone interested in the personal
account of the first Chinese traveler to the United States in the late
1840s had to rely on the first modern edition:

Lin Zhen 林鍼. "Xi hai ji you cao 西海纪游草 ." Zou xiang shi jie cong
shu 走向世界丛书 [From East to West: Chinese Travellers Before 1911],
edited by Zhong Shu He 钟叔 河, Yang Guo Zhen 杨国桢, and Zuo Bu Qing,
左步青, [vol 1], yue lu shu she 岳麓书社, 1985, pp.9-63.

Editors of this book (thereafter "the 1985 revised edition") used a
privately-owned copy in China, which according to them passed down from
the author to his family. One of the editors, Yang, discovered this
obscure book in 1980 and, with his co-editors, edited and introduced it
to the public in China and beyond. Without the 1985 revised edition, I,
like others, would not have known this early Chinese traveler to the
West and his interesting encounters, which include his observations of
American society and technology, his rescue of 26 Chinese sailors from
their abusive captain in New York, and his subsequent legal trouble.

Yet, even with this highly accessible 1985 revised edition, this eBook
is worth producing for three reasons:

*1)* Editors of the 1985 revised edition substantially but silently
revised the original text. To be sure, the transcription of the
classical text into simplified Chinese, the new paragraphing, and the
addition of punctuation are not unique to this edition but are standard
practices in the reproduction of classical works in China. However, many
of the silent editorial changes are questionable, including the
substitution of "offensive" words (e.g. 夷 [barbarian] was changed to 洋
[foreign]); the replacement of variant characters; the “correction” of
“wrong” information; and, above all, the change of the author’s name
from 林綤㿝 (as printed in his original text) to 林鍼 without any
editorial note. This kind of editorial changes may prevent the reader
from appreciating the original publication’s historicity and nuances.

*2)* Besides the extant copy used by the editors of the 1985 revised
edition, there is actually another one housed in the New York Public
Library. Both are the traveler's original publications but
there are significant differences between them. The 1985 revised
edition's source, published in around 1867, has more front and end
matter supplements, penned by the author's friends and supporters: an
illustration, four pieces of complimentary remarks 題記, five forewords
序, twenty complimentary poems 題詩, and five postscripts 跋. By
contrast, this eBook’s source, published much earlier in about 1850,
does not have any illustrations, complimentary remarks or poems, and it
only has two forewords and two postscripts. In fact, one of the
forewords in this eBook’s source appears as a postscript in the 1985
revised edition’s counterpart. This may lead us to believe that the
original publication had more than one edition, each of which might have
different combinations of front and end matter supplements. This also
confirms that this eBook’s source predated the 1985 revised edition’s
counterpart since the latter includes supplements written and added
after the publication of the former.

*3)* Although the 1985 revised edition has marginal annotations, a name
index, and a glossary of proper noun translations to provide contextual
information, it lacks any references to American primary sources that
provide contemporary accounts of events related to the author’s
encounters in the United States. Without these American newspaper and
periodical reports, we would not even know that the author was called
"Lin King Chew" (and by other transliterated names) in the United
States; nor would we know the exact people and institutions his travel
book refers to—let alone the wider context of his travel experiences.

This eBook, while building on the 1985 revised edition, takes a
different approach. I hope to provide access to the original publication
with less editorial mediation but more American context. My eBook,
therefore, provides not only a transcription as faithful to the original
book as digitally possible, but also pictures of each of its pages. Also
included are select American press reports with hyperlinks to relevant
parts of the traveler's account.

For more information, please see my online project at
http://scalar.usc.edu/works/firstchinesetraveler/.


    A note about the author’s names and the book title's translation

The author calls himself 林綤㿝景周 (Lin Shao Xiang Jin
Zhou) or 林綤㿝 (Lin Shao Xiang) in his book, but those who
wrote supplements simply call him [林]景周 ([Lin] Jin Zhou)
. However, without any editorial note, the 1986 revised edition replaces
林綤㿝 (Lin Shao Xiang) with 林鍼 (Lin Zhen or Lin Qian) as the author's
name. The latter does NOT appear in the original publication on which
this eBook is based. To stay true to the author, I keep 林綤㿝 (Lin Shao
Xiang) as his name.

Lin probably used the transliterated name “Lin King Chew” when he
traveled to the United States. This name appears in several American
press reports of the time, and it is phonetically close to one of his
Chinese names, 林景周 (Lin Jin Zhou). The front cover of this eBook’s
source has an inscription of another transliterated name: "Lin Kung
King"; however, the Chinese counterpart for this transliteration, 林君
景, is not the author's correct name. I therefore adopt "Lin King Chew"
as the author’s English name for this eBook. However, please note that
American newspapers and periodicals of the time used other incorrectly
transliterated names for Lin, including, for example, "Ling Keng Chow"
and "Sin Ken Chem."

As for the book title, the front cover has an inscription of its English
translation: “Reminiscences of Western Travels.” I do not know if it was
Lin’s translation, which was a possibility. Since this is a good
translation, I use it for this eBook’s English title.


TMT



------------------------------------------------------------------------





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of First Chinese Traveler to the United
States, by Shao Xiang Lin

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FIRST CHINESE TRAVELER TO U.S. ***

***** This file should be named 54433-0.txt or 54433-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/4/4/3/54433/

Produced by Ting Man Tsao
Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

